docs(external): introduce debugging guide (#22417)
vectordotdev/vector: website/content/en/guides/developer/debugging/debugging.md

> ---

Reviewer: This seems like the type of doc that the Documentation team could really help refine 🙏

title: A guide for debugging Vector pipelines
short: Debugging Vector
description: Step by step guide for debugging pipelines
tags: [ "dev", "debugging", "guides", "guide" ]
author_github: https://github.com/pront
domain: dev

> aliases: [ "/docs/guides/developer/config-autocompletion.md" ]

Reviewer: Did you mean to alias this? It seems to be an existing guide.

weight: 1
---

# Debugging Guide

> This guide will describe an imaginary use case and how to progressively resolve issues using dev tools and Vector commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will describe an imaginary use case and how to progressively resolve issues using command line tools and Vector commands.
```

The usage of "dev" might scare off people that use Vector but aren't developers.

Imagine we have two sources, and we want to assign group IDs to Vector logs based on the source. Finally, we want to send those modified
logs to an HTTP server for further processing and/or storage.

In the following sections we will examine the tools we have at our disposal.

> <img src="/img/guides/debugging-meme.png"  alt="debugging-meme" width="400"/>

Reviewer: This image seems to be missing.

## Vector Tools

### Vector top

Use [vector top](https://vector.dev/docs/reference/cli/#top) to display topology and metrics in the console.
For example, you can inspect how many events are produced by sources vs how many events reach the sinks.

Command:

```shell
vector top
```

Screen:

<img src="/img/guides/vector-top.png"  alt="top-screen"/>

### The internal metrics source

> The [internal_metrics](https://vector.dev/docs/reference/configuration/sources/internal_metrics/) source can be used to inspect component

Reviewer: I'd recommend showing how they can be piped to a `prometheus_exporter` sink and scraped with `curl` to examine. Otherwise readers may not know what to do with the `internal_metrics` source.

metrics in detail.

### Vector Tap

With [vector tap](https://vector.dev/guides/level-up/vector-tap-guide/) you see the input and/or outputs of your components.
Here, it is worth mentioning a caveat, sinks don't have outputs thus we cannot tap them. This means we cannot inspect actual payloads that
are sent downstream.

Command:

```shell

> vector tap

Reviewer: I'd showcase `--inputs-of` / `--outputs-of`. Running `vector tap` by itself isn't terribly useful.

```

Screen:

<img src="/img/guides/vector-tap.png"  alt="tap-screen"/>

### Console

Note that the [console sink](https://vector.dev/docs/reference/configuration/sinks/console/) can also be very useful here. For example:

```yaml
my_console_sink:
  type: console
  inputs:
    - my_source_0
    - my_source_1
  encoding:
    codec: json
    json:
      pretty: true
```

## Python HTTP Server

The following code implements a Python server that imitates a downstream system to which Vector publishes logs. We will use this server

> to demonstrate a few scenarios.

Reviewer: This seems like something that might be nice to have under test in the future. That is, have the script be a Python file in the repo and have a test that actually exercises it to ensure it doesn't break.
